The Death of Classic Anime – Gigguk
翻译：Ench
04:18-09:30


And finally, number three, 然后最后一点
#3 QUALITY质量
The term classic surely implies that there would be a certain level of quality or critical acclaim behind it. 经典的背后要不是有着实的质量 就是备受好评
You can have something that’s remained relevant for years and is also widely influential as you would see with a lot of gateway anime, 入宅作大多都经得起时间考验且又有很大影响力
but unless there’s a general agreed consensus that it’s up to a certain level of high standards, 但是除非观众能都达成一致觉得某部作品的水准足够高
people won’t take it seriously. 没有人会怎么关心的。
I think the best example of this is the Sword Art Online franchise, which is still way more relevant than arguably any other anime that came out in the same year, 我觉得《刀剑神域》系列就属于这种作品的典范 虽然它现在比起其它同年作品还要有讨论热度
and undoubtably has had the popularity to back it up while influencing the landscape of modern anime, 而且还有庞大的粉丝来支撑 甚至还改变了现代日漫的发展方向
but, would anyone actually call this a classic? 但是 真的会有人称《刀剑神域》系列为经典吗？
Now, with these points in mind, 若是考虑到以上全部三点
how many, if any, could you apply all three criteria to an anime today? 今时今日 如果有的话 有多少动画还能背负得起“经典”这个名号呢？
WHERE’S THE MODERN CLASSICS “现代经典”都去哪儿了？
To me, it’s the feeling of a modern classic that’s been missing from anime recently, 对我来说 我觉得原因还是在于现代动漫缺少的经典气氛
and I don’t want you to get the impression that that means anime has gotten worse. 当然 言下之意绝对不是指动漫正在日渐衰弱
Quite the opposite in fact, I think it’s better than it’s ever been, and that might actually be it. 正相反 动漫每日都在超越昨天自己 而这就是原因的根本
Never before, such a wide variety of high-quality anime being available to us in a constant drip feed of seasonal content, 每一季度毫无中断地播放种类如此广泛的高质量动漫
never giving us a moment’s rest. 这种事情放在以前可是想都不敢想的
We’ve been spoiled for choice, and it kind of shows when I think this Spring season is kind of weak 在这番剧质量稍有欠缺的春季中 大量的选择摆在我们面前反而会显得有些刺眼
just because it only has two shows I’m super hyped shows, 毕竟能够让我兴奋期待起来的番目前仅仅只有两部
Carole & Tuesday 卡罗尔与星期二
Attack on Titan Season 3 Part 2
进击的巨人 三季二期
and five shows I think are pretty good 而让我觉得挺好的番剧目前只有五部
Isekai Quartet 异世界四重奏
Sarazanmai 皿三昧
Demon Slayer 鬼灭之刃
Fruit Baskets (2019) 水果篮子 重制版
One Punch Man Season 2 一击男 二期
Get, get, get out of here 给 给我滚出去
What do you mean I’m not literally spending every free moment 你特么的真以为老子没花费生命中的每一滴时间来看
trying to keep up with shows worth watching like the last two seasons 上两季度那些还算值得一看的番啊哈？
Oh, god, 卧 槽
What a, what a fucking failure of a season! 你个番剧季度之耻 不滚出去在这儿瞎摆什么弄
While there are less shows pioneering new things, 动漫这个媒体的历史也算挺久远的
which is understandable considering how old this medium is right now, 开创新道路新领域的领头番虽然们变少了
I think the average quality and very certainly the quantity of choice has gone up. 但是我觉得动漫的平均质量 和供我们选择的动漫数量 绝对是提升了的
But, that’s the thing: 但是 请别忘记：
if everything’s special, nothing is. 若每人都器宇不凡 则人人都是凡桃俗李
Of all the 3 criteria, it’s staying power that seems to be missing most of the time. 三个条件里面 时间的考验似乎反而是最难的一个
Current trends and hype series cover the majority of what remains relevant and impactful throughout the wider community 大热和流行的作品和趋势占了御宅社区大多数的话题
with the sheer density of new series being fed to us every season, 加上一层又一层的新番盖在话题的中央
it can become easy to forget even great shows.
就连百年一遇的神作也会被人们速速淡忘
We used to complain that anime used to have filler seasons; 曾几何时我们曾抱怨动漫剧情划水拖沓
now, it feels like we have filler anime. 数年后的现在 仿佛番剧本身 就是在划水一样
You could argue that it’s far too early to determine which recently aired anime has staying power, but, 有人可能说 现在来说新番有没有留在动漫历史的潜力 未必太早
I’d argue that you’d be hard pressed to find any show that lingers around for longer than 3 months, 但是我觉得 其实就连能撑过三个月的动漫都不多
let alone, years or decades later. 更何况几年 甚至数十年的时光
Just because not a lot of time has passed doesn’t mean you can’t have a good idea of what will stick round, 新番播出的时间虽不算长 但大概扫个一两眼后 你估计也分析得出哪些番能经得起时间
There have been plenty of sporting events that have been labelled an instant classic. 在发生后立马被贴上“经典”标签的体育赛事活动可谓数不胜数
As soon as the last episode of Breaking Bad aired, I knew it was gonna go down in television history; 《绝命毒师》的最后一集一播出 我就已经知道了这集绝对会在电视剧史上画上浓重的一笔
and with what Infinity War and Endgame have achieved and how much it’s permeated into general pop culture, 《无限战争》和《终局之战》早已渗透了流行文化的每一个角落
I have no doubt they will become classics that have defined this generation. 无疑它们注定会成为这一代人对“经典”一词的标准答案
On a rare occurrence though, 但是偶尔
I will watch an anime that does something special that would stay in my mind for a very long time, even in this climate. 就算在这样的行业气候下 我还是会去在成堆的动漫里 挖出一些能够长时间留在我脑海里的奇特玩意儿
Something that goes above and beyond, even compared to the best, and has that special X factor you rarely see. 那种超越常规常识的模板 那些带着神秘的X因素 那种能够和神作抗衡的存在
The anime that I would say has come closest to becoming a classic recently, is Mob Psycho 100 Season 2. 我觉得 在最近播出的番剧里最接近“经典”的动漫 是《路人超能100 二期》
Hell, I know many of you would probably argue it already is, and I completely get that. 你们估计都会说它已经是个经典了 当然我也了解你们想法的出发点
Season 2 of Mob Psycho is one of the best anime series I’ve seen in years, 《路人超能100 二期》毫无悬念是我近年看过最精彩的动漫之一
that completely blew the first season out of the water. 甚至远超其第一期所达到的水准
It somehow levelled up its orgasmic animation with some of the best fight scenes of the last decade, 它拿着第一期的高潮式作画和上十年间最精彩的打斗场景且再次进行了升华
and paired this with a heart and intimate character writing that wasn’t as prevalent before, 它有那曾还不算普遍的 耿直却又用心的角色塑造
while ending every major plot thread it had set up resulting in an all-around package that will certainly stick with me for years to come. 加上无数条完美回收的 串合起来的伏笔 注定会让《路人超能100 二期》在我脑海里挥之不去
It was just such a perfect storm of greatness on every level that you rarely get to see. So, what exactly is it missing? 这部从几乎各方面都完美无瑕的艺术品 究竟还缺了些什么呢
Well, it's precisely because, it’s a season two. 其实 原因就是它标题里的“二期”
As much of a masterpiece as I think it was 不论我怎么下海口夸这部番
a lot of people dropped off after season one, 我还是劝不回来一些 在看完一期就弃番的人
which is to be expected in the fast-paced anime cycle, 在这充斥着快餐式动画的行业 加上一期和二期中间整整两年的缺口
and an over two-year gap between seasons. 这似乎也不是什么值得惊讶的事情
Even I had trouble remembering everything the first season left off at, 就是这些小事情抹杀了《路人超能100 二期》所拥有的潜力
and I’m sure this killed off a lot of the potential wide scale impact it could’ve had. 毕竟就连我都不怎么记得起一期的所有内容
I have no doubts that if it was one long season or even if the gap was shorter, 我敢说 只要把两期动画结合为一期 或者把两期中间的空窗期稍微整短点
it would’ve permeated the community much deeper than it did. 这部番的影响就肯定不会止于此步了
But as it stands, it wasn’t even the most popular show of its own season. 但其实无论质量如何 它仍然不是季度里最受欢迎的那部番
There was more discussion around Shield Hero, 剧情党都围绕在《盾之勇者成名录》旁
more fresh hype around Promised Neverlands, 所有人把期待都给了《约定的梦幻岛》这样的新鲜番剧
and more memes around Kaguya-sama. 舞蹈区 鬼畜区和玩梗人士则跳去了《辉夜大小姐想让我告白》那坑里
This I think, perfectly illustrates why it’s so hard for anime today to get a sense of longevity. 这仿佛完美地说明了为什么现在的好番剧往往不会长寿
Right now, anime has become too segmented to have the same influence, 现在的动漫早已没有了以前的单一性 因此而失去了曾经所拥有的影响力
and the community moves too fast to have the same staying power it used to. 而御宅社区现在怜新厌旧的本性早已和以前大不相同
I’m sure it’s still possible, it’s just much harder. 制造现代经典并非不可能 但绝非易事
It has to be able to stand up from the dozens of anime it competes with every season, 现代经典需要有能够在众多同期季番中间脱颖而出的资质
it has to be given a long enough run time, 现代经典需要足够的银幕时间
to have a lasting impact without big breaks if it’s broken up into seasons, 需要有影响业界或社区的能力 如果是分期放送则还不可以有长期的缺口
it has to be easily accessible on a streaming platform that the community will collectively access, 现代经典需在有大量用户的视频平台上放送来积攒人气
and on top of that, it has to be, 而且不仅如此 现代经典还要
you know, 呃 需要
really fucking good. 吊炸天的牛逼质量
I do, however, think there’s a small asterisk to this point. 但是 说了这么多 我还是想标出一个小小的例外
